=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POE::Component::IRC::Cookbook - The PoCo-IRC Cookbook: Overview

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<POE::Component::IRC|POE::Component::IRC> is a fully event-driven IRC client
module built around L<POE|POE>. It can be used to write IRC client applications
of any kind. This cookbook features working examples of programs demonstrating
the capabilities of POE::Component::IRC.

B<Note:> This is a work in progress. The entries without hyperlinks indicate
unwritten recipes.

=head1 RECIPES

=head2 General

=head3 L<Disconnecting|POE::Component::IRC::Cookbook::Disconnecting>

Shows you how to disconnect gracefully.

=head2 Bots

=head3 L<A basic bot|POE::Component::IRC::Cookbook::BasicBot>

A basic bot demonstrating the basics of PoCo-IRC.

=head3 L<Translator|POE::Component::IRC::Cookbook::Translator>

Add translating capabilities to your bot.

=head3 L<Resolver|POE::Component::IRC::Cookbook::Resolver>

Have your bot resolve DNS records for you.

=head3 L<MegaHAL|POE::Component::IRC::Cookbook::MegaHAL>

Allow your bot to talk, using artificial "intelligence".

=head3 L<Seen|POE::Component::IRC::Cookbook::Seen>

Implement the "seen" feature found in many bots, which tells you when your bot
last saw a particular user, and what they were doing/saying.

=head3 L<Reload|POE::Component::IRC::Cookbook::Reload>

Structure your code in such a way that your bot can be reprogrammed at runtime
without reconnecting to the IRC server.

=head3 Feeds

Use your bot as an RSS/Atom feed aggregator.

=head3 Reminder

Have your bot remind you about something at a later time.

=head3 Messenger

Have your bot deliver messages to users as soon as they become active.

=head3 Eval

Have your bot evaluate mathematical expressions and code.

=head2 Clients

=head3 L<Gtk2|POE::Component::IRC::Cookbook::Gtk2>

A simple IRC client with a Gtk2 interface.

=head3 ReadLine

A simple IRC client with a ReadLine interface.

=head1 AUTHOR

Hinrik E<Ouml>rn SigurE<eth>sson, hinrik.sig@gmail.com

